# CS-499 Computer Science Capstone

Professional Self Assessment:

  Throughout my time during the capstone course, there has a great deal which I've been able to learn. Taking the time and going back to learn about the work that I had done in the past, and the steps that I can to improve it have been super benefical to my skills not only a developer but also as a person. Seeing the failures or the mistakes allows for us to be able to grow as people, so when our objective was to build upon something which we had already created, It really helped open my mind as to how I can solve this same issue again, but do it better this time by using the past as an example of what to do and what not to do. This is a vital aspect in the computer sciecne field. Knowing that there are multiple appraoches to one issue can really inspire and improve onself to be better. We leanrned many vital skills such as how to ineract/communicate with stakeholders and investors. Gettting their view and input on project ideas is vital as it's usually being created for them, so this can greatly improve user experience and allow for a greater deal of communication between team members or project oriented goalls. Some other topics which we touched upon were data software development and design, data structures & algorithims, and databases. These are there vital computer sciecne topics which we covered throughout thus course that we continously built on to become better, well-rounded developers who are able to imrpove whatever they create or work on. 

  My current eportfolio is composed of three different assignments which encompass those topics we just mentioned. For the software engineering and design portion, I used a project from one of my courses where we created python scripts which interact with a MongoDB database to retreieve information that a user is requesitng in regards to an animal shelter company. The big changes that I made were updating the create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) methodologies that I used within the code to make it much more scalable and easier to use for anyone. The second project was for the data structures & algorithims topic. For this project we were assigned to create a system which can parse and connect information accoridng to a class list located on a text file. This class list had the name of courses as well as any pre-requistes needed to take it. For my updates, I went back and made it so that the sytem was much quicker by using a different type of algorithim to parse and return the information.  It also provided a UI so that the users could enter exactly what they're looking for and retreive the desired information. Finally, for the third topic which is databases, I updated the same MongoDB database, but this time when the user interacts with the webpage that lists the location and name of the avialable dogs, it also gives them more funtionallity by being able to retrieve a larger degre of information from the database. Not only does it list their requested information, but it also now has a different section which shows dogs close to what they were searching for.
